docs/master.md, before:


# rancher

You are going to create at first a rancher node out of a master node.

This node would not require much capacity in resources. The two things used more than average are:

- The database (MySQL). We'll be looking for an [AWS RDS free tier](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/free/).
- The network. Luckily digitalocean has [no bandwith limits](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/questions/how-do-i-check-my-monthly-bandwidth-usage?comment=69760) at the moment.

Let's see what to do now.

## creation

You can use the existing `create.sh` script in this repo, or [have a look](nodes/master01/create.sh) to do similar operations.


```bash
git clone https://github.com/pdonorio/infrastructure.git
cd infrastructure/nodes/master01
vi .env # if you wish to change some parameters see the config file

./create.sh

[...]

# creates ssh key if missing

# creates firewall if missing

# creates volume 

# creates node

[...]
```

Note: this node should be the first you create. This is why this is the only time the script makes sure you have an ssh public key already set-up within your digitalocean account.

Extra commands you can use after:

```bash
# to list your current ssh-keys
doctl compute ssh-key list
# to remove the node created
doctl compute droplet delete master01
```

## rancher stack

Swarm mode
(to be completed)

```bash
# access the node via ssh
doctl compute ssh master01

# remove the welcoming message
rm -rf /etc/update-motd.d/99-one-click

# enable swarm mode
myip=$(ifconfig eth0 | awk '{print $2}' | egrep -o '([0-9]+\.){3}[0-9]+')
docker swarm init --advertise-addr $myip

# disable containers firewall, we will use the outside firewall instead
ufw disable

# create a developer user
export MYUSER=developer
useradd -m -d /home/$MYUSER \
    -s /bin/bash -p ! $MYUSER \
    && usermod -aG docker $MYUSER \
    && su - $MYUSER

# deploy the stack
git clone https://github.com/pdonorio/infrastructure.git
cd infrastructure/stacks/rancher
vi .env # if you wish to change some parameters see the config file

# TODO: to be completed

```


## bastion

This node will be used to access digitalocean and rancher accounts for cronjobs and scripts.

Commit message:

Rancher and secrets first draft to test the entrypoint

docs/master.md, after:


# rancher

You are going to create at first a rancher node out of a master node.

This node would not require much capacity in resources. The two things used more than average are:

- The database (MySQL). We'll be looking for an [AWS RDS free tier](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/free/).
- The network. Luckily digitalocean has [no bandwith limits](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/questions/how-do-i-check-my-monthly-bandwidth-usage?comment=69760) at the moment.

Let's see what to do now.

## creation

You can use the existing `create.sh` script in this repo, or [have a look](nodes/master01/create.sh) to do similar operations.


```bash
git clone https://github.com/pdonorio/infrastructure.git
cd infrastructure/nodes/master01
vi .env # if you wish to change some parameters see the config file

./create.sh

[...]

# creates ssh key if missing

# creates firewall if missing

# creates volume 

# creates node

[...]
```

Note: this node should be the first you create. This is why this is the only time the script makes sure you have an ssh public key already set-up within your digitalocean account.

Extra commands you can use after:

```bash
# to list your current ssh-keys
doctl compute ssh-key list
# to remove the node created
doctl compute droplet delete master01
```

## rancher stack

To launch the rancher stack we want to use some outsourced database instead of one simple container with everything inside. This action would ensure easy upgrades of the rancher server and no damage if the containers crashes for any reason. A separated MySQL container would be fine too: but then backups and reliability become an issue.

To configure rancher to use an external servers with relative credentials we want to ensure better-than-average security and avoid making credentials available as environment variables. More on this topic [in this post](https://medium.com/lucjuggery/from-env-variables-to-docker-secrets-bc8802cacdfd).

To use secrets we need the `swarm mode` active on the docker engine.
Also secrets cannot be passed directly to the container (they are files, not variables), so we need to override the rancher container entrypoint to inject the secrets.

Here are the instructions to work all of this out:


```bash
# access the node via ssh
doctl compute ssh master01

# remove the welcoming message
rm -rf /etc/update-motd.d/99-one-click

# enable swarm mode
myip=$(ifconfig eth0 | awk '{print $2}' | egrep -o '([0-9]+\.){3}[0-9]+')
docker swarm init --advertise-addr $myip

# disable containers firewall, we will use the outside firewall instead
ufw disable

# create a developer user
export MYUSER=developer
useradd -m -d /home/$MYUSER \
    -s /bin/bash -p ! $MYUSER \
    && usermod -aG docker $MYUSER \
    && su - $MYUSER

# deploy the stack
git clone https://github.com/pdonorio/infrastructure.git
cd infrastructure/stacks/rancher
vi .env # if you wish to change some parameters see the config file

# TODO: to be completed
docker stack deploy -c stack.yml rancher

```


## bastion

This node will be used to access digitalocean and rancher accounts for cronjobs and scripts.
